1. Contrast people of your age with those of your parents’ generation. 
Think about beliefs, values, goals, traditions, language, etc. 

  The difference between the current generation and their parents’ generation in Vietnam is striking. 
Their disparities range from the simplest aspects, such as age, to more complex subjects, such as values and beliefs. 
The three most important differences between these two age groups must be religion, goals, and traditions.

  First of all, the number of people who identify as religious is higher in the older generation, 
while younger people usually identify as atheists. The senior age group is usually devoted followers of 
Vietnam’s most common religions, including Buddism and Catholicism. They are also inclined to believe in 
superstitions. For example, business owners will see the first customer of the day as an indication of 
how well their shops will sell that day. Meanwhile, the younger generation is much less likely to worship 
any gods, nor do they attend church services or temple ceremonies as much as their parents. 

	Second of all, adolescents have intentions that are more focused on their well-being instead of aiming for 
a nuclear family as their end goal, like their parents. For example, a man born in the old generation might 
be inclined to aim for a white-collar career in an office with a mediocre wage and stability. In contrast, his 
descendant is likely to pursue a flexible job solely because it is aligned with his or her passion. 

	The final point is that older people are more likely to strictly adhere to traditions than younger people. 
Traditional beliefs and even prejudices are ingrained in the mindsets of older people. On the contrary, the newer 
generation is more open-minded and their opinions are generally progressive in nature. For instance, it is a common 
sentiment among the past generation that Vietnamese men and women must perform traditional gender roles, while in 
this generation, both genders are striving for more fairness in their duties. Moreover, older people put more 
importance on performing cultural rituals such as burning paper money or participating in worship ceremonies in 
local temples. On the other hand, younger people do not tend to pay attention to such formalities.

	In conclusion, there is a stark contrast between Vietnam’s two generations. The differences include their devotion 
to faith, their aim in life, and how they perform local traditions.
